>> Erik Reinert: If we go back to
our slides really quickly here,
we want to get app runner set up.
What was the first thing we wanted to do?
We wanted to do a container image.
So what's the next thing we want to do?
Database.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So what we're going to do is we're
actually going to go to Supabase.
Now, this is not an ad for Supabase.
I'm not saying that all of
you should use Supabase.
I'm just simply saying that it's an easy
way to get started with a database,
a postgres database.
If you don't want to
do something like rds,
there's a lot of really
great options out there.
I just happen to like Supabase and
if Supabase wants to sponsor me,
they're more than welcome to.
But no, this is just,
I really do happen to like this platform.
I've used them for a little while now, and
yeah, so anyways, what we're gonna do is
you're gonna log in and then after you log
in, you're gonna go to your dashboard.
Now, you'll notice that I already
have a few projects here and so
really quickly what I can do is I can
show you what we're going to be creating,
but basically we're going to be
creating a database in Supabase.
What's really nice about Supabase, and
this is when you're a startup company,
it's really important
to have good metrics.
It's really important to be
able to have good metrics.
Easy management.
One of the things I learned when I was
working at startups was if there's not
a control panel for it,
you're probably not enabling
everyone to be able to do their job.
Like, just because you can do CLI and
use CLI doesn't mean that everyone can.
And so I've made decisions around
where to deploy and how to deploy,
not realizing that if maybe I had
taken another approach or extended it
a little bit more, I could have enabled
a lot of other people to do their jobs.
And so one of the reasons why I actually
like Supabase is just that you have
all of the database management
needs really at your fingertips.
And so again, if you're a new company, and
you don't want to have to worry about
setting up and managing all this stuff,
your database is probably one of
your most important things, right?
Like, that's where all of your user
data exists, that's where Every,
all of your data exists there.
And so using a service like this that
has like a nice UI on top of it,
be able to manage the database,
really user friendly and well, can enable
a lot of other parts of the company to
do things too if they need to as well.
Whether it be other teams want to be able
to go in and manage data or whatever.
It's a very approachable platform.
And so yeah, like I said,
using tools like this is not bad,
especially in the future or in the early
on stages when you don't really know what
you're going to be doing yet.
So it's got a table editor,
you can see here,
here's all the existing
tables that we have.
It's also got an SQL editor
which is really nice.
We'll be using that shortly where
you can just copy and paste scripts.
You can literally just run SQL
commands right in the browser.
It is really powerful.
Again, if you're going to put your money
anywhere, I definitely think it's worth
finding those valuable things
that can bring value back.
We're going to go into, like I said,
we're going to go into Supabase.
I'm going to go back to
my dashboard here and
then what we're going to do is we're
going to create a new project.
So I'm going to click New project.
Keep it on free.
Make sure that you have it on free.
Okay, let me go ahead and
delete one of these really quickly.
I'll just delete this really fast.
Project settings and I didn't realize
that I was going to have a limit.
I actually pay for it.
Cool.
Okay,
so we're going to go back to New project
and we're going to enter our project name.
It's going to be fem md service, right?
You're going to want to
generate a password for it.
Something pretty decently strong.
I use a password generator
most of the time anyways.
So what I would do is I would come over
here and generate something like this.
I'm not going to generate
it on screen though.
I don't want you to access this database.
I'm just gonna copy and
paste this password in, and
then I'm going to keep it for later.
I would recommend you doing the same.
Open up a tab in neovim or Visual Studio
code, whatever editor you're using and
just keep these credentials available
because this is not the first and
last time we're going to
use all of these things.
Cool.
Okay, so
the next thing we're going to do is we're
going to pick a region, let's do Ohio,
that's fine,
it doesn't really matter anyways.
Then once you do that,
the last thing you're going to do is
you're going to click Security Options and
you'll see here that it says what
connections do you plan to use?
Data API connection string or
only connection string?
What's actually nice about Supabase is
that it has an API built on top of it
in front of your schemas.
So you have out of the box rest API calls,
so
if you don't want to have to
make postgres connection,
you want to just start grabbing data
immediately from your database.
Again, think about the ability
that others now have.
You don't even have to worry
about giving them a connection.
They can just immediately
start working with the data,
which again is very powerful for
even metrics and all that stuff.
In this case we're just going
to say only connection string.
We are going to try and
make it a little secure, obviously.
So that's why we're going to
say we want to make it so
that that data API is turned off and
only connection string is there.
So I'm going to hit create new project and
then once I do that,
I should be brought into this dashboard.
So this is going to take a few seconds.
It is setting up the project,
but underneath the hood they're going out
and doing what you would have been doing.
They're creating that
database instance for
you, they're setting up all the ACLs and
all the permissions and everything.
Like they're doing all the work that you
would have been doing anyways underneath
the hood.
Once the project is set up, you basically
should be landed on a page like this.
And if we go to our database, for example,
we will see that there, I'm sorry,
our table editor, we'll see that there's
no tables there, SQL editor is blank.
So what we need to do now is we actually
need to start working with the database.
We need to actually start
setting it up and whatnot.
What we're going to do is we're
going to go to the SQL editor and
just like before,
not even changing the process,
we're going to copy that SQL out of
the readme Txt and into the editor.
So I'm going to go up here,
start, go here, copy,
and I'm just going to paste it into there.
Again, it not making fun at all.
But in all seriousness,
it's a common approach.
A lot of people do.
There's still a lot of just
manual database work and
that requirement of just copying and
pasting and scripts.
In having this ability out of the box
again, it already paid for itself.
I don't have to figure
out how to run this.
That saves time.
That literally just saved us time,
which is nice.
Once you paste that in and
then you hit run, it will run the query.
It should say success, no rows returned.
But then if I go to my table editor and
there we go,
I can see all of my tables now exist.
If I click on one of them,
I can see administrators table.
I can see my aspiration updates
comments followers now again,
this is a completely empty database,
but the ability to have something
out of the box that's so
easily usable is really, really nice.
Again, there you go.
Now, we didn't need to change anything,
I didn't have to figure out how
to script a whole bunch of stuff.
As I said before, there was a lot of
reason as to why we took this approach and
we're starting to see it
now really take fruition.
So after we do that, we're going
to just grab our connection URL.
At the very, very top there's
a button that says connect.
And please make sure
to write this down and
put it somewhere because it's all unique.
Once you click that button,
it will show you all the different ways
that you can connect to your database.
You'll see direct connection,
you'll see Transaction Pooler,
Session Pooler on the right.
You'll see each of how it works.
The only challenge is
that Direct connection,
even though it sounds like the default,
it's not IPv4 compliant.
So they use direct IPv6 connections,
which means that if you don't provision or
get a database or
service provisioned in IPv6 land.
It won't be able to connect to it, or
at least easily without making
some weird things work.
So we won't be using Direct
connection in this case.
We also won't be using Transaction Pooler.
Transaction Poolers are a little
bit more focused for lambdas and
a lot of connections simultaneously.
We don't really need to worry about that.
We know we're only really
connecting one service.
The last one is the Shared pooler,
which is IPv4 compatible and
really just a direct connection.
But over IPv4 I can grab this little
button right here when I hover over it.
Copy that, and then, we're just
going to put that in the notes too.
Let's just put this in notes because
we're going to need this as well.
So I'm just going to say
database URL in my notes, and
then I'm just going to paste that.
One thing I do want to point out is
you'll notice in the URL it does say
your password.
So I did not dox myself here,
just be aware that you're going to have to
pass in the password that you generated,
right?
With the password portion of that URL,
so that you've got the full URL.